# Microfluidics-Paper-Fig-Code
All the code used to generate figures in the microfluidics paper

A description of each file:

1. vid_process.m generates figure 5. To create the exact figure, the following 2 files must be available: 'vid_data.xlsx' manually tracked f data and 'du.mp4' the experiment video. 


2. ode_jump.m generates figures 4 and 8 by running a stochastic simulation of clogging for 3 devices with different number of columns and solving the ODE system numerically. It does not require any additional files to run.


3. single_column_plots.m generates figures 2 and 6- stochastic simulation of clogging for single-column devices. It does not require any additional files to run.


4. clog_sim.m generates the sheets in the worksheet files 'cp_n.xlsx' and 'cf_n.xlsx'. These sheets can later be used in 'cf_n_plotter' and 'cp_n_plotter' that generate figures 3 and 7. This file performs stochastic simulation of clogging for constant total flow and constant pressure difference. Collects the clogging time and fraction of clogged channels at the time of clogging and exports them to an Excel Spreadsheet.


5. cp_n_plotter.m generates figure 7- stochastic simulations of multiple column devices w fixed total flow. It requires the file 'cp_n.xlsx' generated by running the simulation file 'clog_sim.m' 


6. cf_n_plotter.m generates figure 7- stochastic simulations of multiple column devices w fixed total flow. It requires the file 'cf_n.xlsx' generated by running the simulation file 'clog_sim.m' and the 'nb_cf_theory_qQ0.xlsx' and 'nb_cf_theory_q2Q0.xlsx' files generated by the 'cf_theory_multiple_columns.nb' notebook.



7. 'cf_theory_multiple_columns.nb' is the Mathematica notebook that calculates the hybrid theory results for the multiple-column devices with constant total flow. 
